# Eiight Months Later - A fools errand.
running

So much for writing every week/month.

Honestly the funniest thing was I would have forgotten this had I never started running. Let me explain.

On January 1st I had gone running with my partner and her brother. A fools errand for sure and especially for someone as out of shape as myself. They promised a 3km run only. To start the new year. It was almost 3km away from home that they turned around and 5km later I have never felt so out of condition in my entire life. I decided to start on another fools errand, I would run every day this month.

But how? What would the structure be? I remember a wise nugget of wisdom the Data Architect on my team at work dropped on us: it takes 21 days to form a habit, 4 days to break it. I figured, if I get to 21 January the last 10 days would be easy. the first week was hell. The second week worse. The third week slightly less work. Here you would be expecting an "and suddenly it was all better!". Alas, the fourth week went back to being hard again. However I did notice that somewhere along the way I stopped having that conversation with myself before a run that usually went like this:

King : OK! Run time
Inner-voice King : But why? You hate running
King : That's true...
Inner-voice King : How about an early night?
King : Oh that sounds not a bad idea actually
Inner-voice : Yesss... :devil:

On February 1st, I thought well one more month and one more km per day.

6 months later and I have so far added one more km per day and am now at 8km per day. I don't know if it got easier on the actual run, but it has become very much a habit, im no longer out of breath, find that the incremental kilometer per month extra is hardly noticeable and generally that (and corroborated with a seemingly arbitrary metric from strava) I feel a fair bit fitter.

Working with Data and connections between systems I decided to create a small dashboard, automate it and have it hosted [here](https://sth0nian.github.io/x-km-per-day/) with code hosted [here](https://github.com/Sth0nian/x-km-per-day). Then I stumbled on this fun "blog" and decided to write it here.

See you in 6 months.